So now we're going to go directly over here.
To business plan.
OK.
So here's what we're going to first.
You're going to download your templates.
And so if you haven't already selected what template you're going to use I selected one then go back
here to the outputs.
So we go to the upper tier and you can scroll down and select whatever cover page you want.
And the rest of the contents will be similar.
I allowed you to update your foot header and footer yourself.
I kept it simple just patients but the rest is the same thing so you're just going to select whatever
cover page you want.
So I selected her page number one.
And based on what you select.
Ill tell you what to do next in terms of down the document here.
So I selected cover page number one.
And for those you care about how I create this I use what's called an array.
And you can watch the last part here in the course to find out how I did this Excel stuff from scratch
if you're a nerd like I'm not a nerd.
I am but you're not.
OK.
So here it says.
Well first of all it says before looking at the rows below make sure to watch the lecture you're watching
right now whatever you can click here and I put it online as well.
In case you want quick access there kind of like I did for all these little question marks here if you
click them.
So it says here that I should get a business plan template when you can download from the course or
you can click here to go to my Web site to download any of the 50 or all 50 whatever you want to do.
So once you've done that how much can you use sample number one to keep it easy.
What I want you to do is I want you to go to properties and then if this is optional but I want delete
this and just put your name in there.
And the reason I says sometimes it's tag they they can see who the author is.
I don't want to say my name I should just empty that open.
It's already submitted.
OK John Smith and then you can click here to watch a video which is the video you're watching right
now.
So that's kind of a moot point but let me delete that highlight and delete it.
OK.
And then this here this entire table of contents is going to update as we complete the document.
And I wrote here a little note which says Right click on here and update the field you know after you
finish it and then select entire table so I delete this now you can delete this yellow box at the end
if you want.
OK.
So just go here.
OK great.
All right good.
And we're going to fill this entire bad boy together.
And there are some other notes there too as well which I'll go over in a second.
All right.
Let's get started let's go back here.
And if you look here actually it says here's all the fields we're going to fit into here.
And the reason it's got that little underline there is you can notice it but but I Pontious space there
and in a period a white period on a white background just so that you don't delete the paragraph mark
which is that if you cross the return Mark.
OK.
All right.
So the first thing we do is when we get our company name and I put it all here for you directly cast
here that your company name is here so just select not this is like this here.
And you're going to copy and paste special k so if you had a company name here you would just hit copy
and then pay special.
But what I'll do is just for fun I'm going to go back to your company name and there's many ways to
go during your show.
The longways for fun.
So let's say you want to change your company name.
I know you already put it in the bag and we go here.
I'm going to change a couple things.
So your company name here is empty.
And so I got a call it's breakfast ups
Breakfast at Tiffany's.
I don't know I have that song in my head right now.
Here's your sample product description.
E-mail address all that stuff you get the idea.
OK.
Let me go back here to the business plan and that will be located there.
I can't get the song in my head.
OK.
So this year what we'll do is just copy it and don't select the whole thing is this for sale here copy.
And that will go here.
And then what you can do is highlight this don't hide the whole row because it might like the paragraph
mark just highlight this and then make sure you're back here like that like don't do it like that.
It's tedious but once we get this process down it's really quick.
And then we're going to do.
You're going to pay special because we don't want to mess up the formatting in this whole documents
to text only because this is where we go.
And then your product or company or service description which is here are a sample subscription.
So your products are scription.
You can always go back and get it if you don't have it yet and you cannot use has dropped in here.
Copy again just like the first cell not the whole thing here.
And I'm going to go through here and I'm going to paste the text once again.
And then your cover page date which is here.
And this only needs to be done once.
Just for fun consistency.
I'm going to go like this and just go right to that.
All right pays special as texts.
All right.
And then your first and last name and obviously it's right here it's pretty easy.
OK.
And once we get this out of the way it's a pretty quick kale paste here.
And then same thing email address you can get all that stuff.
And then if you have a legal disclosure you just copy here Otherwise skip this part.
And if you want you can consult a local lawyer wherever you're located.
I'm a lawyer.
So pay special text only here.
There it is that's fine.
OK.
So and I'm assuming you did that as well.
And if this stuff is not relevant to you you can still eat those whatever.
OK.
Great.
And don't worry that you got the underline here it won't appear that way obviously when you print it
and when you go to File Save As PTF if you wanted to go to PTF here it looks a lot different in the
Windows version but it's all the same.
Obviously it's not going to show up either.
You can just ignore that but the great thing about doing this now is we can look at our grammar.
And also we can look at our spelling here because there will be spelling mistakes are there always are
for me at least.
Now before we move on I want to show you quickly how to do the image.
So if you had the image and you create your own logo you can go back to step two and grab it there if
you want and everybody has a different way of creating their own graphic art.
And I want to appeal to everybody but what you can do is if you created your own logo you can bring
it in kind of like I have these here.
And if you're curious on it if you haven't done so already.
Whatever if you want to create a logo for five bucks which is how much it literally cost me for this.
You can click here and watch a video on that.
You can just copy this and bring it over.
So copy and then go here and then just kind of paste it in and get rid of this.
And you know for those of you that have those you that have and you have to like that to Senator as
well.
If you have a background you want to get rid of save it's a different color from the White background
here.
What you can do is if you don't use advanced software you can always just just use this and go here
in a picture format and remove the background and then you can highlight what you want to keep what
you want to move.
So let's say I want to remove for whatever reason everything except for the Blue those blue there.
This is ridiculous but I'll click there.
It looks like that but I don't get controls to undo that.
And it's up to you how you do it.
And if you want to change the color formatting here as well you can just click on this and it works
pretty cool when it comes to right clicking and all the mike Savel personated develop like Microsoft
technolgies back in the 90s.
I am that old bone you Right-Click.
You can it.
Microsoft always anticipates what you're trying to Shingo format shape.
And then here you can change how it's filled in and you can choose whatever color you want.
But what I recommend doing is matching your logo.
OK so if you click here let's just say you want to match that color there in your logo just to be consistent
on the page select that there then go OK.
And that will happen is we'll match it down there you see so whatever color you're using customized
for you.
And again don't worry about these little grammatical errors here.
What you should do is if you do see a different color there and put those periods in for that technical
reason but delete all those if you want to keep your cover page looks like this.
If you don't have all the details here you can delete it.
If you don't have disclosure you can delete that and keep it there.
And that looks kind of nice actually.
I like that better.
OK.
All right great.
Moving on and we're going to update the executive summary first so I can click this to go there.
It's really cool.
Check this out.
And I include this here for you.
You can ignore this if you want.
I'm just I was assuming some people might open this up without me there with them and I want to I don't
really get.
Right.
And so it's all based on the field so leave that there if you want to or delete it if you're going to
stay with me through this process and just do what I do.
If you wants.
OK.
So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to put in this stuff here.
And I gave you a couple of ways to do it.
OK.
Just because I always love to give you a couple different ways to do soften my course.
So if you're to scroll down you can copy and paste your company a market overview here.
I'm going to show you how I do it here.
A couple of ways.
So right here because it has company Mark or if you go here again just kind of highlight it just up
until the end here and then you can go paste special next day or what you can do.
Oh see that that's a mistake it's a typo.
OK.
And a lot of the information that I have in here is not going to make sense anyway so I just threw in
dummy data here.
But if you were to copy and paste this instead it'll work out better because that's the real deal.
Let me just go get control Z and then I will go pay special.
Come on pay special off my computer so slow.
Keep text over that picture.
Don't do that.
We'll do that later.
OK.
There goes it appears there which makes it I still made a mistake.
Comma there you are backspace Backspacer.
OK great.
And I want to show you another way to do it though so you can copy and paste like I just showed you.
OK.
Just you can move down through the entire business plan and then copy and paste special for all these
things.
It's an order.
So what I did was I pulled out all these outputs.
I put them all here including the financials in a beautiful order.
So it's it's it's really nicely format.
If you venture information I'm going to show you how to create everything from scratch.
If you scroll down to the very bottom is there and what you want to do is I'm going to go scroll down
a second story more stuff but I always show you a second way to access your data.
So many controls the couple times get rid of this.
There you get.
So I'm going to copy this here copy and let's say you have no idea where this came from.
So if you wanted to paste here hit enter and there it is there it takes you directly here.
Right.
All those fields are mapped for you it's pretty cool.
And then you can copy it and then pay special k like I should.
Now before we start doing the rest of our document one issue is topical.
So let's first of all hide this let's assume that we want more room in you know the drill with this.
I'll take a second or so to hide it.
My computers are really slow today.
But you can also do is there go about what you can also do is you can click this and this will collapse
everything for you.
So you can understand from a higher level perspective it's a lot of fun together.
So this is step two step three step four and it's in order with how we're completing this.
And it directly mirrors what's in your contents here.
And these two are the subheadings these ones.
So you've got heading one who's heading one heading two's heading threes.
So usually heading ones and twos having one having two.
OK so product and services adding one.
And these are heading to.
So if we look at product and service that's heading one we've got a bunch of having TOS here and this
is all heading TOS for product and service so if we were to open this here and it's right below and
it takes a second to open I usually leave them all open and just a lot faster that way.
Because it takes a while to kind of it's compressing a lot of pictures and financial data as well.
But here's what looks like.
So this here is the step five product and services page and all the headings here will be mapped.
If you wrote stuff to directly here and I'll walk you through this whole process and merge before I
had these and it remembers what you selected before.
So you can click this to make it service only this product or find better.
So I'm confused.
So what I want to do is I'm now going to open up all of these in a second.
I just want to show you everything.
High level to see what it looks like together.
There you go.
All right.
And the financial stuff we have here as well.
Lots of financial stuff.
And then the appendix stuff there as well.
Look on this.
A lot of work we did here but it can be worth it.
OK.
So now I'm going to open up everything
and this is going to open up every one of these rows and make sure that all of your step 12 financials
statements have all the groups open like I mentioned before.
And if you have questions about that please let me know and you can also do is I know that a lot of
you are actually going to probably put this Excel spreadsheet on the left side and the Word doc on the
right side.
So I was anticipating that and what you can do if you want as you can.
You can hide or you can scroll over to hide this blue stuff of mine I'll show you what that means in
a second.
So let me just truncate that.
Let's get an update here in a second.
OK.
So what you can do is see how I froze the panes here.
You can unfreeze the panes if you want to go to unfreeze paint and look at them but you can just scroll
over here so that you don't see my my dummy data is just yours.
And a lot of people might want to see if I can do this you might want to take this and put this window
on the left and then on the right put the the word documents.
And if you don't do that just fast forward to this point here the lower third but I want to show you
for fun.
OK so we're going to go here OK.
So it's different like if you're on Windows you can actually hit escape before I do that.
But if your windows are going to drag the item over if you're in a Mac you're just going to do it I
just showed you there.
OK.
So anyway you've got both on each side.
And I want to show you one more thing because I don't know what resolution you're using or Zoom wise.
So I also gave the option to close that there that group.
And it's just going to have your information on the right side if you want to just copy and paste each
item and you look at that.
Yeah.
So you can do it this way as well.
So for your executive summary just you're going to copy and paste your stuff there.
What a way to do it.
I'm going to show you just my stuff I'm going to go on high speed mode and just pay copy and paste this
stuff here which is all my dummy data.
So I'm going high speed now and I'll complete the rest of this
OK.
If you don't have a board of advisors you can just highlight this and delete this entirely.
I go back in a high speed mode and finish this off.
End for the product image.
If you don't have it here you might have had it earlier in the course somewhere else where you included
it.
And as always you can always highlight these fields here and show you copy it's pasted up here into
this Field's bar.
And by the way if you don't if you don't see what I'm pasting up here this left window to the right
one.
But if you don't see it you can always go to View and then add that's let me actually go up here view
and then you add the formula bar and allow that there so if I click this Enter it'll go automatically
to where you had that in the course.
And what I do is I'm going to get out of this mode here for now.
Just a little bit easier this way to show it to.
It will go automatically to here where it should be input.
And if you don't see it here then just go back to wherever you had it in the course mean the executive
summary part and we click here to go home.
And then he can go down here to executive summary inputs or outputs wherever you put it.
And then you can copy it for it from here.
So if you scroll down and this is all just obviously you don't need to do it if you didn't put an image
there.
You don't have to copy it from here and if you didn't put an image in the output here you have to go
back in there and trying to make it really easy way to organize stuff for the cat.
So what I'm going to do is I'm no longer going to have the window side by side.
I have to do the rest of it this way.
OK.
So let's go back to our business plan here.
And I'm actually going to open up all of these as well.
Yeah I think it's easier this way but I wanted to basically allow you to do it many different ways.
So I've got the product image and I'm done.
Obviously your date is going to look different on the right than mine will case.
This is just executive summary.
Go back over here and that's fine.
I've got everything but the product image is forever.
Sorry Glenn it's optional OK and you'll notice I also had this here.
That's the footnote which I explained to you as well.
Through what was listed here before I paste on top of it.
OK.
So I can get there in this place on top that's fine and you can pretty this up if you wanted to.
Words got some pretty fun waste a pretty up images.
You can go to shadow which I like doing on the right side just be consistent if you chateaus your that
use everywhere.
If you want and you can make this bigger as well.
That sort of thing completely optional obviously.
OK.
A little grammar issue there.
So help me great.
Fix it up.
OK.
So looks like we are done now.
Say I made a mistake there and is copying and pasting.
So the executive summary is done.
And I made a grammatical error there maybe two spaces there but whatever doesn't matter.
So we're now done with the executive summary and I'm going to show you in the next lecture.
How did did the management team.
Thanks.